# `sm::math::Vector2_t`

```cpp
template <sm::concepts::number T> class sm::Vector2_t;
using sm::Vector2 = Vector2_t<double>;
```

## About

A `Vector2_t` holds 2 values - an x and a y coordinate. It represents a Euclidean vector, or arrow in space.

A `Vector2` is a vector of doubles. As it is used frequently, it is a typedef for `Vector2_t<double>`
Similarly, `Indices` for indexing into `Images` and `Dimensions` are both typedefs for `Vector2_t<size_t>`

## Example

```cpp
auto vec = Vector2{2, 3};
fmt::print("{}", vec); // prints: Vec( 2.000,  3.000)
```

## Members

1. `T x` : x-coordinate

2. `T y` : y-coordinate

## Constructors

`Vector2_t` is an [aggregate](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/aggregate_initialization) and hence all constructors are generated by the compiler. Use as:

```cpp
auto vec1 = sm::Vector2(); // x=0,y=0
auto vec2 = sm::Vector2{}; // x=0,y=0
auto vec3 = sm::Vector2(1,2); // x=1,y=2
auto vec4 = sm::Vector2{1,2};  // x=1,y=2
auto vec5 = sm::Vector2{.x = 1, .y = 2}; // x=1,y=2
```

## Literals

1. `consteval Vector2 operator"" _x(long double x);` : constructs `Vector2{x, 0}`

2. `consteval Vector2 operator"" _y(long double y);` : constructs `Vector2{0, y}`

Example

```cpp
using namespace sm::literals;
auto vec1 = 1.0x; // (1,0)
auto vec2 = -4.2y; // (0,-4.2)
auto vec3 = 1.0x - 3.14y; // (1,-3.14)
```

## Member Functions

1. `constexpr double length() const noexcept;` : length of the vector

2. `constexpr double length_sq() const noexcept;` : length squared of the vector. Avoids the `sqrt` to save computing time

3. `constexpr double angle() const noexcept;` : angle of the vector from the positive x-axis

## Operators

`Vector2_t` is overloaded on common mathematical operators for both other vectors and scalars (`double`s). Operations are conducted element wise. **This means that multiplication is element wise,** and not the dot or cross product.

NOTE: all these are `constexpr` and `noexcept`


Given 2 `Vector2_t<T>`s, `lhs` and `rhs`

1. `Vector2_t<T> operator+=(rhs)`

2. `Vector2_t<T> operator-=(rhs)`

3. `Vector2_t<T> operator*=(rhs)`

4. `Vector2_t<T> operator*=(T num)`

5. `Vector2_t<T> operator/=(rhs)`

6. `Vector2_t<T> operator/=(T num)`

7. `bool operator==(lhs, rhs);`

8. `bool operator!=(lhs, rhs);`

9. `Vector2_t<T> operator+(lhs, rhs);`

10. `Vector2_t<T> operator-(lhs, rhs);`

11. `Vector2_t<T> operator*(lhs, rhs);`

12. `Vector2_t<T> operator*(lhs, T num);`

13. `Vector2_t<T> operator*(T num, rhs);`

14. `Vector2_t<T> operator/(lhs, rhs);`

15. `Vector2_t<T> operator/(lhs, T num);`
